So here's your exercise.
You are the product manager
of Google Maps, and
are given the director to make it easy to
order food on the Google Maps interface.
So the user story is gonna look like this.
As an end user of Google Maps,
I want to be able to search for local
restaurants and order food from there,
directly from the Google Maps interface.
Okay, I want you over the next little
bit to list out all the stakeholders
that you think are involved
in this particular feature.
And what you're kind of trading off
between all these different products, or
of these stakeholders if you were to
implement some sort of feature like this.
You can do this in VS Code,
that's probably what I would do
it in cuz I used to work on it.
So I'm obsessed, or
you can just do it on Google Docs.
Great trick is if you just do docs.new.
It takes you to a brand new Google Doc.
So that's your exercise.
We'll come back, and
we'll talk a little bit about it,
but we already did it a little bit,
so we'll go move pretty fast through
the exercise and get on to the next thing.
But I think it's just a good exercise in
like, how do we think about stakeholders?
So hopefully,
this was a fun exercise for you.
We can just chat about this out loud and
let me know if you have
different ideas than me.
But other than the normal kind
of stakeholders that we're
talking about in the previous exercise,
I would certainly view delivery people
as a unique stakeholder in this.
What's their experience like?
What is the ordering merchant like?
And then you have to consider
the stakeholders inside the restaurant to
the liner records,
how are they getting their tickets?
How are they acknowledging their tickets?
How are they saying that they're done?
How are they communicating problems?
You have to worry about your
customer's support in there.
These are all product stakeholders that
have surface area into your application,
and you need to consider.
And so if you're making it easier for
customer support,
are you messing with delivery people?
Are you messing with end users,
like the delivery people?
Those are all kind of people
that I'm thinking about.
I mean, you need to think about people
that are looking at Google Maps that
are not looking for delivery.
So if you're putting that very front and
center,
you're gonna be annoying a lot of people
that don't want that right now, right?
So you need to make it findable but
not annoying.
And sometimes that can be
fundamentally at odds, right?
So the other thing that I think
it's really hard with these kind of
Swiss Army knife kind of products
is what is your point, right?
So if you pull up a listing for a Google
Maps kind of business, what is your point?
And the answer is,
we don't actually know until you
start showing us your intent, right?
So if you're scrolling down,
are you looking for
the hours, are you trying to order food?
Are you trying to make a reservation?
Are you trying to see if the reviews
are good, the reviews are bad?
Are you trying to leave a review?
Are you a business owner
trying to dispute a review?
There's so many stakeholders there that
making this kind of listing look good and
be useful for so many people ends up being
a really, really, really hard problem.
So I intentionally chose
Google Maps because they
specifically have that problem, right?
My project with Streamlit, I mean,
even Streamlit has some of
that problem sometimes.
We have developers and
data scientists, and
those are two very different
demographics of people.
They share some,
both of them probably write Python?
So one of them was like one's use Git and
pylints, and Flake8, and Black, and
one of them's like,
I don't know what any of those are,
please just let me write code, right?
Or please just give me the data.
So I do struggle with
this somewhat as well.
You kind of have to account for
all these different personas and
these different stakeholders
in your application.
So any questions about that?
Any interesting insights anyone had
when doing this exercise for themselves?
>> I think the issue that I ran into,
sorry, was you order something and
it's not available, and you don't find out
until later, and that's really annoying.
Cuz I'm like, well,
this is what I wanted, and
you're now calling me telling
me that it's not available.
>> After 20 minutes, right?
>> After 20 minutes-
>> [CROSSTALK] I'm
here, about ready to punch someone.
>> [INAUDIBLE] 20 minutes ago, and I'm
still hungry now, and what do I do then?
>> Well, and so here's a problem that
like, who is that customer going to blame?
>> I'll probably blame the restaurant
cuz it's the most convenient option.
>> But is that the right person to blame?
Or is it Google for not making that
more obvious to them immediately so
that they could say,
we actually don't have that.
And is there one right
answer to that question?
>> I don't think the right average
consumer is gonna think about that.
>> Yeah, they're gonna blame
probably all of you, right?
And likely probably Google cuz that's the
interface that they have is like, well,
I did this with Google and
Google didn't make it right.
F you, Google, right?
>> I took a similar note regarding
menu option availability.
Like if you have daily specials,
are you manually entering that through
some management interface on Google Maps.
Or is there some automation
tooling built into Google Maps for
restaurant owners to manage
those sorts of things?
And if you ran out of the soup of the day,
how do you notify
Google to update that menu item's
availability for users of Google?
There's a lot of COGS that need to
stay linked and turning together for
that pull operation to be a success.
>> That's where my brain went on this,
right?
What is the operational
procedure in place for
this from the business and
then also from the consumer?
If I tip, where is the tip going?
To who, and how is it getting there, etc?
But then to your point with 86,
the cheesecake,
how do I know that the cheesecake is 86?
>> Right.
>> Yep, this is exactly what I
want you to get out of this,
is like, okay, I need to think
about everyone this affects.
And I need to figure out who's
getting something good and
who's getting something bad, and
then weigh those kind of impacts.
Cuz as Google, am I willing to say,
hey, restaurants,
you need to keep your listings up-to-date?
That actually might be a pretty
reasonable ask of you to make of them.
But like, hey, we're gonna send you an
order, and we're gonna send it late, and
all of a sudden,
you're gonna figure out that you
actually don't have any of these things.
And now, by the way,
you have to call the customer, right?
That would be a very bad stakeholder
management there because you would
really piss off the businesses as well
as pissing off your customers, right?
So it just sucks.
>> Something I found interesting,
it's related,
is who suffers long-term from this, right?
This great example of,
we run out of a product,
who's likely to get
repeat business on this?
It's Google.
Whether or
not they didn't deliver this service,
they have a huge footprint
of services to deliver.
And so your consumer who Google
causes business X a problem, well,
business X deals with the fallout
because Google can just redirect
their user's attention somewhere else
>> Or more sponsored listings.
>> Yes,-
>> [LAUGH]
>> More sponsored listings.
And this is, I mean,
literally a privileged position
that Google has put
itself in as a company.
And the thing that I found most
interesting was you have highly
competitive stakeholder groups here.
Because your C-suite is not caring much
who goes out of business as long as
there's somebody to direct
business to that they can skim.
>> Right, well, and that's only
scalable to such a certain point,
because eventually,
you're gonna have open revolt, right?
Also, the restaurants are gonna
come together and say, okay,
you're screwing all of us, none of
us are gonna list on your platform.
It's tons of bad press cycles.
You can only take so many withdrawals from
that system before the system fights back.
And I'm gonna argue,
I think it's unethical as well, right?
And that's a lens that you should
consider in all of these things, is like,
am I acting ethically towards
all of my stakeholders, right?
>> Brian, this is related but
kinda tangent.
In this situation,
if you were working on this,
when are you bringing in empathy and
thought for accessibility?
>> That's a good question,
it's certainly a stakeholder, right?
Someone's gonna be accessing
your site that has either
a temporary or
permanent kind of capabilities.
So a good example of that is when I'm
holding my son, right, I only have,
at best,
one hand to work with something, right?
Or someone that just doesn't have
a right arm altogether would have
the same sort of capability.
How are we providing for all of them?
Ideally, Microsoft is awesome about this,
is they have an accessibility team that
you just bring in and say, hey, what kind
of special considerations do I have here?
Another example of this is I've worked
on a product called the Stripe Shell,
which I can show you, stripe.sh.
If you go to stripe.sh, it actually opens
a little console directly in your browser,
where you can do CLI commands
directly against the Stripe CLI, but
in your browser.
How do you make that accessible?
I don't know the ins and
outs of accessibility of terminals, right?
So we just hired a consultant, right?
Really early on, I was like, this is
gonna be a really sticky problem, and so
we didn't have it by launch.
I don't even know if actually still
has it, to be honest with you.
It's something I pushed for quite a bit.
But at least us having a plan, so when we
launched, there was a bunch of people who
said like, this is zero accessible, and I
was like, we know, and we're really sorry.
We wanted to make sure it worked
before we invested a lot into this
accessibility project.
We have a consultant,
she's been hired, she's ready to go,
we just haven't started yet.
And that was enough to
avoid the bad press cycle.
So early when possible, and
especially if you have resources at hand,
make sure you're really
good friends with them.
Otherwise, sometimes it's
just got to be do your best.
Some companies just don't
emphasize it enough, I don't know,
that's probably my realistic
answer to that question.